"My armour is like tenfold shields, my teeth are swords, my claws spears, the shock of my tail is a thunderbolt, my wings a hurricane, and my breath death!"
Smaug
J.R.R. Tolkien, Inside Information, The Hobbit

[Smaug is smothered with a deluge of molten gold]
Smaug: [rises up] Revenge? REVENGE? I will show you revenge!
[takes flight towards Lake Town]
Smaug: I am fire! I am... death!

Bilbo Baggins: I did not come to steal from you, O Smaug the Unassessably Wealthy. I merely wanted to gaze upon your magnificence, to see if you really were as great as the old tales say. I did not believe them.
Smaug: [strikes a pose] And do you, NOW?
Bilbo Baggins: Truly, tales and songs fall utterly short of your enormity, O Smaug the Stupendous...
Smaug: Do you think flattery will keep you alive?
Bilbo Baggins: No, no...
Smaug: No, indeed!

Smaug: Well, thief! I smell you, I hear your breath, I feel your air. Where are you?
[moves in Bilbo's direction]
Smaug: Where are you?
[Bilbo runs, but Smaug hears his footsteps across the gold and follows]
Smaug: Come now, don't be shy... step into the light.

Smaug: You seem familiar with my name, but I don't remember smelling your kind before. Who are you and where do you come from, may I ask?
Bilbo Baggins: I come from under the hill...
Smaug: Underhill?
Bilbo Baggins: ...and under hills and over hills my paths lead. And through the air! I am he who walks unseen!
Smaug: Impressive. What else do you claim to be?
[leans forward to smell Bilbo]
Bilbo Baggins: L-Luck-Wearer... R-Riddle-Maker...
Smaug: Lovely titles... Go on.
Bilbo Baggins: Barrel-Rider!
Smaug: Barrels! Now that is interesting!

Smaug: You think you can deceive me, Barrel-Rider? You have come from Lake Town! This is some sort of scheme hatched between these filthy dwarves and those miserable tub-trading Lakemen, those snivelling cowards with their Longbows and Black Arrows! Perhaps it is time I paid them a visit!
Bilbo Baggins: Oh, no... This isn't their fault! Wait! You can not go to Lake Town!
Smaug: You care about them, do you? Good! Then you can watch them DIE!